Thank you very much, everyone. Welcome, everyone. Welcome, everyone. Thank you, very much. Thank
you, very much.
Again, it's one of the beautiful moments we talk about discussing the teachings of the Buddha and
the practices with joy and devotion, with determination,
and with all the good environment. It is really one of the very beautiful, I thank you all,
opportunities, and be part of this and be together.
So thank you again, everyone. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Again, welcome, everyone. Thank you.
Then, we're going to, during this week, we're going to go to the teachings of the very famous
master, many of you all know,
known, known as Kedav Karmachami. Kedav Karmachami is the, Karmachami is his name, but Kedav is his
title, what means scholar in the Siddharth.
Truly, he was a great scholar and a great accomplished master, master of that. And yet, according
to the life story, what I heard from my parents in the village,
he used to call, he was so humble, drawn to the earth. He was not, kind of like, stay in a big
principle, a big entourage, and big things, and all that.
Stay in a hermitage, in a cave, and so humble, so simple, and practicing all the time. In a way,
almost all, entirely his life, been practicing.
So, his teaching, what he realized, what he got, visualization, he said to us, his teaching, then
we follow it, that his teaching, his teachings,
are known as the Condensed Heart instructions of the union of the, union of the Mahamudarai, and
looking for the practitioners.
There is series of the teachings on a bit as instructions, which is the union of the Mahamudarai
and the Dzogti teachings.
So, this is one of the deaf teachings, those teachings.
So, we're going to go through these teachings during this week, as much as we can.
And so now, I go a little bit, again, generally, talk a little bit about the practices, that we all
come here to practice, and meditate,
and activate our beautiful inner nature, natural and re-glorified. That's really the purpose of the
whole, we come together here.
And our also, glory is not just glory to outside, but either inner glory. Inner glory is what is
that inner glory.
It's the glories of the loving kindness, compassion, versatile. That is really what it is.
And that is the essence or the embodiment of that is known as bodhicama, or the realization.
That is what is the whole practice. So therefore, let me discuss these teachings.
Again, as you all know these things, what I'm going to talk, but I'm going to go over again that,
in a way,
remind you to all of us, not just you, for me, and we all really have to edit this little bit.
So this is, again, generally gracious teacher, Bhadakshat Yamanu, give a riot with teachings.
All those teachings are designed to benefit, to help or revert our nature, to benefit in this life,
and benefit with others,
with the context of kindness, compassion, loving kindness, respect and appreciation.
All that teachings, all teachings, and that teaching is practiced and meditated and activated in
realization
totally three different ways. Those are known as starting, contemplating any meditation practices,
and it's only a great practice has reached the highest realization, same as the Buddha himself,
one after another, and in India, in Tibet. And then Buddhism came in Tibet, in the eighth century,
full-blown Buddhism came.
And not just only academic or the books and all that, but realization also really born.
So many people individually got the realization in the eighth century.
And by the gracious teacher, Bhai Garpay Masambhava, and the great Master Shandara Kedah, and the
great Master Bhamal Matara,
and as well as so many others, too, came, and so practiced, many, many, so many great Master Kedah,
one after another, great practice, and that, that, continually there, continually there.
Now, what, when we practice, what are the essence of the practice in the teachings?
This is what, again, I'm going to list. Those are the foundation of the practices.
And whether we do the retreat, whether we do individual practices, or do the retreat,
or any time we practice, this is really the teaching, so important.
I mean, we all have this. It's not something that we don't have. So what are those?
Those are, if I listed that, first is 18 endowments. 18 endowments.
Oh, yeah, 18 endowments. Second is devotion or the pain.
And the third is, is, is, what's called, joyful effort.
And fourth is, recidence.
And the fifth is, qualified teacher.
And then sixth is the practices. Practice without obstacles, hindrance.
Those are the six, there's a sixth group. They are like bad rocks of the practices.
And we reflect that to each of those. We all have that.
We have the 18 endowments. We have the devotions or the pain.
We have the joyful effort. We have the Muslims.
We have the qualified masters. We met so many great masters on our pranamas.
And then we received the teachings. And also we don't have much obstacles in practicing.
So that we have that. So therefore, I mean, we all have the perfect conditions, cause and condition
to the practices.
Now the first thing of this 18 endowments, I'm not going to list that. You all know that.
So I'm not going to list that. First is at freedoms. Definitely, we all have that at freedoms.
Ten luxuries among the 18 freedoms. Ten luxuries, that makes 18.
Ten luxuries are related with externally five.
And one's own self related with one's own self individually is five, ten.
And ten, have you looked this, even though we have the, well, we have practiced in meditation, we
have the ten.
But these ten luxuries is fluctuating, particularly few of those.
So that means, even though we have the ten endowments, but when we are out of the practices, we
miss the practices.
We can't remove the different things. Then 18 endowments is not. We don't have the 18 endowments.
We have at freedoms, definitely. Those are at freedoms, but ten luxuries are fluctuated.
And what are actually those tens? Whenever you know, I mean, you all know, actually, this, this,
again.
However, related with others, others, those are known as Buddha came in this world.
Those are listed, and then I will go over a little bit, maybe. You already know that, but I will go
over that.
Buddha came this world. The second is taught the teachings. And the teachings still exist.
And there is practitioners. There is teachers, practitioners, teachers.
So those are the five. Five. Five that are related with others, or external others.
Five luxuries are related with one's own self. Those are known as virtual.
These are the four we are known as human beings. And the second is our organs, or the senses, are
perfectly intact.
And the third, we are placed with the teachings available.
And the fifth is our professional activity and registry is not something that negative or, or
negative and beneficial.
Our interesting, our professional hobby, those all quite lined up with our way of our beliefs.
And the fifth is interesting and devotions to the Dharma.
So those are known as five related luxuries of us.
And what I'm seeing is that few of those ten luxuries fluctuate us. Even there is, of course,
Buddha came in this world.
That means indicating sometimes there is no Buddha came.
Buddha is not came, did not give the teachings. And so there is no teaching available.
Even you are over-enters with them. And that is not happened. Buddha came 2,500 years ago or 600
years ago.
And sometimes Buddha came, but the teaching is safe. There is no teaching available.
That's not happened. The teaching is still available.
And third is there is the practitioners. And the fifth is our Buddha gave the still teaching is
existing.
So sorry, I think I missed that. Buddha came, Buddha gave the teaching and the teaching still
remain.
And there are practitioners, poor. And then there is that there is practitioners and there is
teacher available.
Those are the people. So even there is Buddha came and all that.
But if there is no practitioners or no practitioners and no practicing, then again it's like that.
Really according to the teaching is a blocked word. And then now we're going to think of our son,
one's own son.
And we're born as beautiful human beings. That is for sure. That is perfect.
And the second is and our senses are all good. And then we're born or we are placed where the
teaching is available.
And that is also. And there is also a lot of practitioners. That is also true.
And then the fifth one, and we're not interested in the devotions, then we are not really
practicing.
And then so it is missing. The fifth, the last one is missing.
Even though the practitioners, ever since we are not interested, ever not kind of participate in
practice with the Sangha members or not practicing.
Then even the second, sorry, the fourth one, fourth one is also not really, not any lectures, any
normal lectures.
So everything is kind of demolishing or decreasing, going down and down.
So that is not, for us, for where we are practicing, we are not in that state. Therefore we have to
.
We have all that 18 endowments, perfectly and beautifully now, for where we are practicing.
So that is the number one related with it. Number one of the practice analysis. So 18 endowments.
And the next one is the devotions. Devotions is so important.
Now even we have the importance, as I listed, that the ten luxuries, among that, the five luxuries
related with our self, one's own self is the devotions.
So that every, somehow, if we don't have that devotional, then there is no progress, no activities
of the practice at all.
Or no endowments. Generally there are three devotions. Those are known as the beginning devotions,
known as interest rate devotions.
Second is more desired devotions. Third is known as, then, the very confidence, trusty devotions.
So those are the three devotions.
And the fourth one, according to the great monk, said uncheckable devotions. That is really the
fourth best.
And it is uncheckable. No matter whatever the situation happens, you are really going to keep
continually your perseverance, your joy in the devotions is so strong and beautiful.
Beautiful. So the devotions are so important.
For that reason, Mother said, many times in teaching, all the Buddhas and all the other great
Master's making,
with all the devotions, there is nothing, it can't be activated.
Those people who don't have in the suttara known as avatamsaka suttara said, if there is no dev
otions, those people who don't have the devotions,
they don't have the enlightenment, they don't have the progress of the realizations. Never comes.
Therefore, with all the devotions, nothing happens. Everything is started with the devotions.
So therefore, first important is the 18 endowment. Second most important is the devotion and faith.
Faith is so important.
And the third is so important, even if you have the devotions, if you don't have the joyful effort,
then it really won't go that far.
Even our devotions are strong.
We have all 18 endowments, but if we don't have our joyful effort this week, then it won't go far.
And what won't go far? It won't go far any of our spiritual practices or Dharma practices.
In the Panya Paramata teaching, we don't have the joyful effort, our six Paramatas will become
shaky.
So that means generosity is not going to go well. Paramata is not going to go well.
And variety is not going to go well.
And patience is not going to go well.
Joyful effort, then of course we are talking joyful effort, then it's lost.
And concentration also will be shaky. And the Muslim will be shaky.
So therefore, joyful effort is vital once we have the devotions, once we have the 18 endowments.
We know that it really won't go far. So for that reason, always in the teaching, joyful effort is
so important. Joyful effort is the opposite of the laziness.
Laziness and distractions. So therefore, it is so important.
For that reason, it's called joyful effort. Joyful effort is combined with joy and courage and
commitment to it.
It really combines the target and the perseverance. It's more so strong and beautiful.
So foundation. So therefore, that once we have joyful effort, for example, now we have the 18 endow
ments.
We have the good devotions and the pain. And we have this joyful effort.
Third important is according to teaching. Then, or the fourth story.
Fourth important is then wisdom.
Wisdom is now again so important.
And we don't have the kind of wisdom that clearly, kind of keeping that clearly, exactly on the
track.
Then our practice, even with our devotion, will be shaky.
Wisdom is that "I" that sees everything.
In the gracious teacher, Buddha Haryakya Muni said in the teaching, even you don't have the wisdom.
All the parametas are blind. They are blind. And it really won't go far.
Even though good things, it won't exactly become an affectful and successful force.
It is just kind of become blind, you see.
And what the gracious teacher said in the teaching, known as a parameta teaching, known as seta y
angaka.
And they said, if there is many, what's called many, many people, people who are blind,
even they don't want, even they want to go to the road, they can't go on the road.
Even there is so many people who join together, it's not going to help.
Help, it won't go on the road, it won't go on the directions.
Similarly, if there is no wisdom applied, all the other parametas are become blind.
It won't go exactly and perfectly and beautifully.
And who will take that perfectly beautiful? The wisdom.
The wisdom will guide all the five parametas to the right directions, then become, or become the
transcendental practices.
Generously become transcendental, morality become the transcendental, everyone become the transcend
ental practice.
So therefore, wisdom is so important. What is wisdom?
Wisdom is clearly understanding exactly where things are and following that instructions.
Following the instructions.
That means, great teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni told clearly and lay out perfectly beautiful as it is.
And all the great practitioners and masters kept that exactly as that way, and they become
enlightened or great masters.
And as they shared to their class and keep that instructions in the heart, in the mind, all the
simple way, simple that instructions.
So those are, that is known as the wisdom.
Wisdom that means, clearly knowing exactly as it is.
And then wisdom can be divided into three.
All of us know, wisdom that sometimes teaching mentioned, wisdom that knows, related truth, exactly
as it is.
Wisdom that knows, absolute truth, exactly as is.
And we divide them, let them pull them all, and then three, wisdom.
Wisdom that comes from the starting, wisdom that comes from the contemplation, wisdom that comes
from meditations.
Meditation is the, what actually every kind of highlight of the,
Muslim of the starting, Muslim of the contemplation, what is that?
That is, we highlight that, or kind of like, that is, wisdom of the relative truth.
These both are, Muslim of the relative truth.
Wisdom of the meditation and practice, we highlight that, that is mainly, Muslim of absolute truth.
Absolute truth is beyond the intellectuals, beyond the investigation and analytic ways.
How you can recognize is by our own awareness, self-awareness, pristine cognition,
it will recognize that profound nature of the absolute truth as it is.
Absolute truth is also nothing, mystery or something so spiritual that absolute truth and the
relative truth are completely connected.
There is no difference between related truth and absolute truth.
So for why we don't recognize that, or we don't immediately realize that, because truth, according
to the teaching, is our duality, grasping mind.
Just always looking one direction, and with the clinging, with the grasping.
So that means, what is the grasping, clinging?
According to the teaching, grasping, clinging is not natural.
It is completely artificial.
Completely, what is the teaching says, obscurations.
Completely deluded.
By who?
By our self. Nobody else deluded that.
We, our self, we clinging, we grasp, we make distractions.
Restractions, we make labels, there is nothing, any label.
All these nominations, labels, all these ideas are not coming from outside.
Say, this is my label, this is my name, this is the disadvantage of this.
Everyone is nominated by our duality mind.
And we follow them.
Realitally, none of those existences in that.
But when we label that, that is according to the teaching, it is okay too.
But we grasp it, we cling.
Then we are crashing.
All what we label, what we are holding, back and forth, then it becomes each more and more that.
Crashing and more hindrance, more challenges, more difficulties.
So therefore, this is what is called duality creation.
So therefore, that reason, the absolute level is generally just everywhere.
It is nothing really unusual.
It is like space.
Space is everywhere. It is nothing unusual.
But the same thing is every relative truth is united, joined with the absolute truth.
Because the absolute truth is related to the head.
And the relative and the absolute truth are joined together.
And the way they appear is known as interdependent coordination.
We are all connected.
That is what the great master Narayana said.
If it is interdependent coordination, that is absolute truth.
If it is the absolute truth, that is then interdependent coordination.
This absolute truth is so flexible, pervasive, or absolute truth.
In other words, we can use emptiness.
Whatever emptiness is interdependent coordination.
Whatever is interdependent coordination is emptiness.
They are identical.
They are inseparable.
But yet, we don't recognize that emptiness aspect, or the absolute truth aspect.
We will discover that only by meditating, and then we will fully discover,
the Buddha sees all the time, or great master sees all the time.
That means the duality is removed.
And duality removed, then absolute truth, the relative truth, the eyes, the continues,
those same things, same places.
And for that reason, the Buddha gives all those sophisticated teachings.
In the modern time, maybe we call, or not maybe, it is called,
can be called as like quantum physics teachings.
Buddha gives that 2,600 years ago.
All that.
We see clearly.
It's not something that machine or some kind of measures come.
Anyways, he gets analyzed and then found out.
It's through his wisdom.
See?
And Gopin Masambha says the same thing.
All those great masters say the same thing.
As they meditate, they see, they conform.
Therefore, everything is in that transcendental enlightenment state.
So that is, again, in the wisdom state.
So now, for example, we have the beautiful Indian endurance.
Second, we have the beautiful devotion and the pain.
Third, we have the joyful effort.
Fourth, we have the Muslims.
Now, what we need?
Equally teaching the practioners, then qualified teachers.
Qualified teacher, again, that is, even though we have all those first three or four,
it's in the endowments of the precious human body or precious human lives,
devotions, joyful effort, and the Muslims.
What, then?
Next is what we need is a quarterly teaching of the qualified teachers.
Qualified teacher, what we do?
That will help to activate all your beautiful qualities, what do you have?
It will activate our eating endowments.
It will activate our devotions.
It will activate our joyful effort.
It will activate our Muslims so that we can properly use and discover the benefit.
And for that reason, the gracious teacher Buddha said,
and also in one of the parabola teachings, said, "Oh noble children,
you should contact the qualified teacher until you become the enlightenment."
Until you reach the enlightenment, you should have the qualified teacher.
Teacher.
So it's not just once in a while we need, but until we become the qualified teacher.
And for that reason, we looked back in the history of all those great Muslims,
they contacted the qualified teacher.
Qualified teacher.
And the qualified teacher, of course, there's many explanations in both,
not just both, in the Vinaya teaching, the Mahayana teaching,
and the Vedayana teaching, and many times see that.
But what the great master Shandi Deva said in his teaching, to simplify that.
The qualified teacher, the teacher who is, who are, maybe who is or who are,
always residing on, I'm sorry, always expert of the knowledge of the teachings,
or who knows the, not, or maybe, the qualified teacher who knows the teaching quite well.
And knows well.
And then that qualified teacher is presiding always with the teaching,
as teaching explains.
So that means that qualified teacher is presiding his or her body activity as teaching,
speech activity as teaching, and mind as the teaching says.
So that means we're residing the body, speech, and mind within the teaching,
and then the heart is filled with body chakra, and to benefit for all the beings.
Body chakra, that individually is the qualified teacher.
That's what really the simplified that.
Simplified that.
So that means who knows the teaching, and then, so that means can speak,
or can teach, or can tell about the practices, dharma.
But at the same time, not just only talking, but also practicing that.
Practicing that.
So therefore, that individual is body, speech, mind is completely best upon the teaching.
Gentle, peaceful, exile as teaching, I mean that.
Remaining that, conduct all that, then, above that, the body chakra, the compassion.
Compassion, loving kindness is filled with that individual's heart.
That is really the qualified teacher, the teaching said.
So that is the way we take that as teaching.
Then, besides that, there are many, many qualified teachers explaining,
explaining a code in the Buddha teaching, many things, but that is really the essence.
I like that simplified that.
And the ones you have to qualify the teacher, then the next is what, important,
is contrary to that qualified teacher.
Hopefully, and nicely, with all the tools of the yog.
Devotion, joyful effort, no wisdom, three of that, with that three.
Devotion, joyful effort, and wisdom, and contrary to the qualified teacher.
And they receive the teachings, learn the teachings.
And that when you receive the teaching, you're going to,
or we're going to preserve that teaching with the devotions.
We're going to preserve that teaching with joyful effort.
We're going to preserve that teaching with the Muslims.
When you preserve that teaching with the devotion, joyful effort, wisdom,
what is happening to, what is going to us?
Our body becomes gentle and peaceful.
Our verbal speech becomes gentle and peaceful.
Our mind becomes more gentle and peaceful with full of common sense, full of practicals.
And that means what? When we become gentle and peaceful, why is it becoming?
That means our negative emotions are suffering.
Our negative emotions, what are those negative emotions?
That arrogance is the letter suffering.
And self-important attitude is the letter suffering.
And then greed is the letter suffering.
And together with that grasping, attachment, anger, jealous thoughts, all these softness.
That is softly become more gentle, more softly.
When that happens, what is coming out?
Then our greed and the fallout, our beautiful richness fallout,
the Buddha nature begins to shine from our heart.
More calm, more loving, more compassion, more gentle, more peaceful.
That is the external appearance.
But finally your realization of the understanding of this really expanding, deepening.
Then you also feel calm and peaceful.
And also more beneficial, benefiting to the others.
Helping to the end. But what in the greatest teaching,
Mother Shakyamuni said in the teaching, "Proper the dual purposes."
Helping to the others, helping to proper one's own wishes.
In the context of the joy and apprehension, respects, with full of common sense,
with the humble symbol blown to the earth.
Earth, not convalescent, hovering, clashing, these and that things.
Those are the old habit, old habit of the ego clings.
That all happens. So really, observe it.
Then when that happens, what is so important?
When you are really happy, now that should be really smooth ride.
Smooth vertical, sailings, smooth sails.
So no more obstacles. Try to avoid obstacles.
Obstacles come part of the practices. Generally there is nothing.
But they handle the obstacles nicely and beautifully.
When we go through the lives, when we are in the life, there is always obstacle comes.
Even you read the life story of our teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni.
In his teaching, explain even he had many obstacles.
During his time, when he is fully enlightened, when he is giving the teaching to the old Sangha
members,
monks, nuns, they are practitioners.
At that time, also some obstacles. He is so humble.
So simple. Sitting on the same place where all the Sangha members stay.
Staying, carrying his own bagging balls, walking with bare feet, with a group of Sangha groups.
Yet, he has sometimes obstacles.
Even you read, this is part of the samsara.
Why are these obstacles coming? Because samsara has so many,
many. It is full of negative emotions.
So many negative emotions everywhere.
In a way, we are surrounded with so many negative emotions.
Don't make our negative emotions. There are so many others.
Then it bursts, crashing. Then it becomes the obstacle, handles.
But the gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, all those individuals, how they handle that.
Just handle that. So, it pacifies. It doesn't affect them.
And many times in the practicalness, when they have the difficult obstacles,
it's part of the life you qualify, you are cleaning.
That means harder. That means stronger.
That means what the great teacher, Buddha, gives the teachings among the six paramsa.
Patient. Patient practices.
That is what the gracious teacher Shanti Deva says.
We will have no patience. We don't have patience. There is always trouble.
There is always trouble everywhere. It is coming in every direction.
When it is so sensitive, when it is so kind of like tempting.
That is then what the great master Shanti Deva says. That is tempting.
Then you can't handle anything. Just become more and more obstacles come.
And we become that. But when you have the courage, the confidence, and the strong,
and we have the courage, the commitment, and the wisdom, those obstacles are there.
Dissolving is so nice and beautiful, not just dissolving or going away.
Because of those obstacles, we make it so stronger.
Stronger, harder, and performant than advancing our parameters and our practices.
So therefore, that is what it is. But however, there are obstacles,
hundreds could come. As obstacles could come externally, as I said,
there is so many, we feel the surrender, but we have so many negative emotions.
Beings. And there is always. And then there is also so many obstacles
could come from, not like all the beings, but also such elements could come there.
So there are obstacles. What is the great master, the great Muslim Dakini?
Dakini, Matik Laghram said in his teachings.
Thom Gidhiu. Those are invisible obstacles.
Invisible obstacle or untenable obstacles. There are so many things will come.
But more, the big obstacles, most of the time, arise from our mind.
The inner obstacle, those are what we call here, modern time, psychological troubles,
psychological, emotional problems, psychological problems.
And all the anxieties, all those really obstacles can come, can.
It comes from inner. It's not coming from many things out.
Maybe it has a small percentage to do that as convergence, but cause is inner.
All that. By the practices, then a good practitioner, those all handed,
even those great practitioners who practice in the cave,
they also experience those obstacles too.
But the handle is so beautiful, as is arising.
All the different tools, different instructions they receive,
handle those so well, they didn't do anything.
For when did they practice the realization, then they become the great masters.
Masters. So that's how really this goes.
So therefore, this smooth, like once we have the post,
we have the program of beautiful human lives, then we have the devotions,
then we have the joy of effort, we have the Muslims,
then we have the qualified masters, and they receive all the instructions,
the empowerment, the teachings, all that.
Then we put that practice, make that activated.
But preserve that one. And as you have the devotion,
preserve that with the joy of effort, preserve it that with the wisdom,
then bring the realization. And then can benefit it to ourselves,
to all the things. Even the obstacles, different things come,
but it's all going away, it's part of the process, part of the preification,
part of the removing of all those bad habits, bad things.
So that is the foundation of the practices,
or the bad drugs, as I said, the six bad drugs of practices,
then it will perform that.
And now I will go a little bit over the teachings,
or the life story of the greatest master and carer.